1.Following.Christopher_Nolan.1998/README.md, before:

# Following - Christopher Nolan(1998)

* [Review](#review)
* [FAQ](#faq)
    - [1. how did the earring get in Bill's shoebox?](#1-how-did-the-earring-get-in-bills-shoebox)
    - [2. Why didn't Cobb simply give Bill the earring in the first place to take it home?](#2-why-didnt-cobb-simply-give-bill-the-earring-in-the-first-place-to-take-it-home)
    - [3. How come he decided to use hammer?](#3-how-come-he-decided-to-use-hammer)
    - [4. Why did Blonde insist they go to Bill's house?](#4-why-did-blonde-insist-they-go-to-bills-house)
    - [5. What does Cobb tell Bill in the final phone-call?](#5-what-does-cobb-tell-bill-in-the-final-phone-call)
* [Plot holes/Bugs](#plot-holesbugs)
    - [1. Why does Blonde forget about her earring?](#1-why-does-blonde-forget-about-her-earring)
    - [2. In sequence timeline, 14 and 15 are switched.](#2-in-sequence-timeline-14-and-15-are-switched)
    - [3. Why would Bill bring the bloody hammer to the Blonde's house and leave it there at 01:03:00](#3-why-would-bill-bring-the-bloody-hammer-to-the-blondes-house-and-leave-it-there-at-010300)
* [Interesting hints](#interesting-hints)
* [Sequence Timeline](#sequence-timeline)
* [Interesting philosophical dialogues](#interesting-philosophical-dialogues)
    - [1. Indivuduals vs the crowd (00:02:41)](#1-indivuduals-vs-the-crowd-000241)
    - [2. Take it away, show them what they had (00:13:24)](#2-take-it-away-show-them-what-they-had-001324)
    - [3. Burglary is about entering someone's life (00:14:50)](#3-burglary-is-about-entering-someones-life-001450)
* [I was wondering...](#i-was-wondering)
    - [1. If you were the police, how could you have found out the truth?](#1-if-you-were-the-police-how-could-you-have-found-out-the-truth)
* [Trivia](#trivia)
* [Subjective reviews](#subjective-reviews)
    - [1. Find something to chat about.](#1-find-something-to-chat-about)

## Review

* We have three stories, 1. Bill-Cobb, 2. Bill-Blonde, 3. Bill-Bald that happen
    sequentially in time but are narrated in parallel, each section is split in 5 parts and
    they there five parts are zipped together to make up the whole movie, Except that 14
    and 15 are switched and the openning and ending of the movie.

* Each story begins with Bill following the person and ends with a big revelation which
    is always disclosed by Cobb at Blonde's house through a conversation between them.

* Each person is in control of the events in their story, first Cobb, then Blonde, and
    finally the Bald guy. The Bald guy is controlling everything through Cobb, but Cobb
    makes it clear that the Bald guy is micromanaging everything through saying 
    > (01:05:04) **Cobb:** The old man was very specific about how I should do things. 

    and then,
    > **Cobb:** He was very precise about exactly how and where I should take care of things. Something about a bloodstained carpet... that you've got stashed away to back up your story...

## FAQ

### 1. how did the earring get in Bill's shoebox? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  * Of course Bill did not take it because he did not find it at 00:27:52 or later.
  * The earring was put there to pin the killing of Blonde on Bill. So it couldn't have been
  Blonde who hid it either.
  * So Cobb must have done it, but we see at 00:11:23 that Cobb fails to pick the lock
  and also later at 00:29:48 we see that he breaks the door, so he definately can't
  pick a lock. Therefore, if he wanted to break in Bill's house he should have broken the
  door and so Bill would have noticed. So it is only possible that he did it at the end of
  the story, supposedly when he takes the money from his house, but then the police would
  suspect someone else must have been involved who broke his door and took the money. But
  they could also think that he hid the money somewhere else and broke his own door to 
  backup his story.
</details>

### 2. Why didn't Cobb simply give Bill the earring in the first place to take it home?
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  Because if he did that, Bill might have given it back to the Blonde, but Cobb needed
  it to be found in Bill's house. We know that he suspects Bill would do that because

  > (00:48:27) **Cobb:** You may even get most of it back, if you're lucky.

  And later,
  > **Blonde:** So does that mean you'll tell me where you hid my earring?
  >
  > **Cobb:** No. And I wouldn't wait for your panties either. He's too embarrassed to give those back to you.
</details>

### 3. How come he decided to use hammer? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary> 

  **1. 00:22:17**
  > **Bill:** Surprisingly enough, I thought you might be able to give me some advice.
  >
  > **Cobb:** Steel whip. Nunchucks, they're all right. Tools are good, sharpened screwdriver, 
  > hammer, chisel
  >
  > **Bill:** "Hammer"?
  >
  > **Cobb:** Yeah. Medium size. Good rubber grip. It's very nasty. If you get a claw hammer, 
  > you can pry doors with it. Slip it into the back of your waistband, you're set.

  **2. 00:34:31**

  there were a couple of hammers in the old house, influencing Bill's sub-conscious

  **3. 00:36:20**

  The Blonde tells him the story of the Bald killing someone using hammer 

  > **Blonde:** They didn't like this very much, so they got a hammer. They held him down, 
  > and they smashed every single one of his fingers. And then they smashed his skull.

  Please note that she did not have to tell him these at all. If she said it, she meant to
  say it. She probably was trying to put it in his sub-conscious.
</details>

### 4. Why did Blonde insist they go to Bill's house? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  > (00:20:27) **Bill:** So why, when you agreed to have a drink with me, did we have to come here?
  > 
  > **Blonde:** He still gets jealous, and... I didn't feel like going back to my place. I got burgled yesterday.
</details>

### 5. What does Cobb tell Bill in the final phone-call? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  > (00:59:52) **Bill:** I've got it. I've got to drop off the fucking money first. Money. Bundles of 
  > fucking money. Nothing. Nothing. "Okay"? I'll, I'll be around soon.

  Don't know the answer
</details>

## Plot holes/Bugs

### 1. Why does Blonde forget about her earring?
How come Blonde does not give a fuck and easily let go and never asks again when Cobb
doesn't tell her where he put her earring at 00:48:35? There is no excuse for
Cobb to not tell her and teasing is not acceptable for a long period since it's a
valuable item.

### 2. In sequence timeline, 14 and 15 are switched.

## Interesting hints

> (00:03:07) **Officer:** So you followed women?

## Sequence Timeline
```
1- follow Cobb different streets
4- follow Cobb into cafe 4.2 stealing from random girl
7- stealing from himself (wooden statue breaks)
10- stealing from Blonde 10.2 going to old house first time (there are a bunch of hammers there)
13- restaurant after old house 13.2 writes and shaves -> calls Cobb tells him he rhaved and sold the stuff 13.3 Cobb is with Blonde telling her Bill is hooked
---
2- follow Blonde first time (matches Blonde's face with the pics)
5- Bill chat with Blonde in cafe (introduces himself as Daniel Lyoid) 5.2 takes Blonde to his house (Blonde tells Bill Bald is dangerous) (wooden statue broken)
8- go to Blonde's house first time (Bald leaves Blonde's house)
11- dating Blonde in a bar knows Bald is dangerous (pays with Daniel Lyoid's CC)
15- appologizing from Blonde at Blonde's house 15.2 post shave, hasn't sold, rooftop, suggest stealing from Bald, gets beaten, post sex 15.3 Cobb with Blonde (Blonde asks where is my earring but Cobb doesn't tell)
---
3- just got beaten at the roof 3.2 follow Bald leave bar
6- follow Bald come back in 6.2 call Cobb for advice     *[openning: begin mission prep (wearing gloves)]
9- finish mission prep (puts hammer in his pants)
12- entering the bar at night to steal the pics
14- stealing cont, kills the man                         *[the end: goes to his own house post stealing -> goes the Blonde's house slaps her 16.2 Cobb at Blonde, kills her]
```

## Interesting philosophical dialogues

### 1. Indivuduals vs the crowd (00:02:41)
> **Bill:** How can I explain? You ever... been to a football match, just let your eyes...
> go over, drift across a crowd of people... and they slowly stop and fix on one person...
> and all of a sudden that person isn't part of the crowd anymore? They've become an 
> individual, just like that.
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macrocosm_and_microcosm
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michel_Foucault
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holism

### 2. Take it away, show them what they had (00:13:24)
> **Cobb:** It's like a diary. They hide it, but actually they want someone to see it.
> That's what I do. Concealment, display, flip sides of the same coin.
> This way they know that someone's seen it.
> That's what it's all about, interrupting someone's life...
> making them see all the things they took for granted.
> Like when they go back and buy all this stuff from the shelves...
> with the insurance money, they'll have to think...
> for the first time in a long time...
> why they wanted all this stuff, what it's for.
> You take it away... and show them what they had.

> **Cobb:** Saucy, eh? (shows a pair of panties)
> Found these in the last flat.
> Think I'll just give them something to chat about.
>
> **Bill:** Why would you do that?
>
> **Cobb:** She'll find them in his trousers and ask him what he's been doing.
>
> **Bill:** Yeah, but why would you want to fuck up their relationship?
>
> **Cobb:** Don't you listen? You take it away... and show them what they had.

### 3. Burglary is about entering someone's life (00:14:50)
> **Bill:** I thought the whole point of burglary was taking things.
>
> **Cobb:** No, this is the point, breaking in, entering someone's life... finding out who 
> they really are. I mean, don't you just feel it? Standing here... drinking their wine, 
> people we'll never even meet.

## I was wondering...

### 1. If you were the police, how could you have found out the truth? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

**1.** One possible trace would be that the random girl who was cheating on her boyfriend saw
them in the restaurant and saw that Cobb gave the card to Bill and he signed it and paid
the Bill with it, and then it could be matched with the records of the restaurant that
Daniel Lyoid paid the Bill. But she might not want to risk her relationship.

**2.** Bald guy didn't pay a dime to Cobb, he told Cobb to take the stolen money from Bill. 
And then Bald would get back the money from insurance, but he was running illigal
business, so he wouldn't normally report how much money he makes and has in his safe,
but this time, since he knew he was gonna get stolen from, he might have become greedy
and reported the money correctly, because Cobb took the money so he couldn't prove how
much money was in the safe. Now the police could have checked tax records and discovered
that his earning had a huge jump prior to the incident and figure that he probably knew
the incident was goin to happen.

</details>

## Trivia

* (00:43:56) There is a picture from "The Shining" on his wall :D
* The final scene at (01:07:48) is the same place as (00:02:49). 
  Interestingly enough, that early scene is exactly where Bill is saying [1. Indivuduals vs the crowd (00:02:41)](#1-indivuduals-vs-the-crowd-000241)

Commit message:

add to plot holes 3.
abt the hammer brought to blondes house

1.Following.Christopher_Nolan.1998/README.md, after:

# Following - Christopher Nolan(1998)

* [Review](#review)
* [FAQ](#faq)
    - [1. how did the earring get in Bill's shoebox?](#1-how-did-the-earring-get-in-bills-shoebox)
    - [2. Why didn't Cobb simply give Bill the earring in the first place to take it home?](#2-why-didnt-cobb-simply-give-bill-the-earring-in-the-first-place-to-take-it-home)
    - [3. How come he decided to use hammer?](#3-how-come-he-decided-to-use-hammer)
    - [4. Why did Blonde insist they go to Bill's house?](#4-why-did-blonde-insist-they-go-to-bills-house)
    - [5. What does Cobb tell Bill in the final phone-call?](#5-what-does-cobb-tell-bill-in-the-final-phone-call)
* [Plot holes/Bugs](#plot-holesbugs)
    - [1. Why does Blonde forget about her earring?](#1-why-does-blonde-forget-about-her-earring)
    - [2. In sequence timeline, 14 and 15 are switched.](#2-in-sequence-timeline-14-and-15-are-switched)
    - [3. Why would Bill bring the bloody hammer to the Blonde's house and leave it there at 01:03:00](#3-why-would-bill-bring-the-bloody-hammer-to-the-blondes-house-and-leave-it-there-at-010300)
* [Interesting hints](#interesting-hints)
* [Sequence Timeline](#sequence-timeline)
* [Interesting philosophical dialogues](#interesting-philosophical-dialogues)
    - [1. Indivuduals vs the crowd (00:02:41)](#1-indivuduals-vs-the-crowd-000241)
    - [2. Take it away, show them what they had (00:13:24)](#2-take-it-away-show-them-what-they-had-001324)
    - [3. Burglary is about entering someone's life (00:14:50)](#3-burglary-is-about-entering-someones-life-001450)
* [I was wondering...](#i-was-wondering)
    - [1. If you were the police, how could you have found out the truth?](#1-if-you-were-the-police-how-could-you-have-found-out-the-truth)
* [Trivia](#trivia)
* [Subjective reviews](#subjective-reviews)
    - [1. Find something to chat about.](#1-find-something-to-chat-about)

## Review

* We have three stories, 1. Bill-Cobb, 2. Bill-Blonde, 3. Bill-Bald that happen
    sequentially in time but are narrated in parallel, each section is split in 5 parts and
    they there five parts are zipped together to make up the whole movie, Except that 14
    and 15 are switched and the openning and ending of the movie.

* Each story begins with Bill following the person and ends with a big revelation which
    is always disclosed by Cobb at Blonde's house through a conversation between them.

* Each person is in control of the events in their story, first Cobb, then Blonde, and
    finally the Bald guy. The Bald guy is controlling everything through Cobb, but Cobb
    makes it clear that the Bald guy is micromanaging everything through saying 
    > (01:05:04) **Cobb:** The old man was very specific about how I should do things. 

    and then,
    > **Cobb:** He was very precise about exactly how and where I should take care of things. Something about a bloodstained carpet... that you've got stashed away to back up your story...

## FAQ

### 1. how did the earring get in Bill's shoebox? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  * Of course Bill did not take it because he did not find it at 00:27:52 or later.
  * The earring was put there to pin the killing of Blonde on Bill. So it couldn't have been
  Blonde who hid it either.
  * So Cobb must have done it, but we see at 00:11:23 that Cobb fails to pick the lock
  and also later at 00:29:48 we see that he breaks the door, so he definately can't
  pick a lock. Therefore, if he wanted to break in Bill's house he should have broken the
  door and so Bill would have noticed. So it is only possible that he did it at the end of
  the story, supposedly when he takes the money from his house, but then the police would
  suspect someone else must have been involved who broke his door and took the money. But
  they could also think that he hid the money somewhere else and broke his own door to 
  backup his story.
</details>

### 2. Why didn't Cobb simply give Bill the earring in the first place to take it home?
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  Because if he did that, Bill might have given it back to the Blonde, but Cobb needed
  it to be found in Bill's house. We know that he suspects Bill would do that because

  > (00:48:27) **Cobb:** You may even get most of it back, if you're lucky.

  And later,
  > **Blonde:** So does that mean you'll tell me where you hid my earring?
  >
  > **Cobb:** No. And I wouldn't wait for your panties either. He's too embarrassed to give those back to you.
</details>

### 3. How come he decided to use hammer? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary> 

  **1. 00:22:17**
  > **Bill:** Surprisingly enough, I thought you might be able to give me some advice.
  >
  > **Cobb:** Steel whip. Nunchucks, they're all right. Tools are good, sharpened screwdriver, 
  > hammer, chisel
  >
  > **Bill:** "Hammer"?
  >
  > **Cobb:** Yeah. Medium size. Good rubber grip. It's very nasty. If you get a claw hammer, 
  > you can pry doors with it. Slip it into the back of your waistband, you're set.

  **2. 00:34:31**

  there were a couple of hammers in the old house, influencing Bill's sub-conscious

  **3. 00:36:20**

  The Blonde tells him the story of the Bald killing someone using hammer 

  > **Blonde:** They didn't like this very much, so they got a hammer. They held him down, 
  > and they smashed every single one of his fingers. And then they smashed his skull.

  Please note that she did not have to tell him these at all. If she said it, she meant to
  say it. She probably was trying to put it in his sub-conscious.
</details>

### 4. Why did Blonde insist they go to Bill's house? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  > (00:20:27) **Bill:** So why, when you agreed to have a drink with me, did we have to come here?
  > 
  > **Blonde:** He still gets jealous, and... I didn't feel like going back to my place. I got burgled yesterday.
</details>

### 5. What does Cobb tell Bill in the final phone-call? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

  > (00:59:52) **Bill:** I've got it. I've got to drop off the fucking money first. Money. Bundles of 
  > fucking money. Nothing. Nothing. "Okay"? I'll, I'll be around soon.

  Don't know the answer
</details>

## Plot holes/Bugs

### 1. Why does Blonde forget about her earring?
How come Blonde does not give a fuck and easily let go and never asks again when Cobb
doesn't tell her where he put her earring at 00:48:35? There is no excuse for
Cobb to not tell her and teasing is not acceptable for a long period since it's a
valuable item.

### 2. In sequence timeline, 14 and 15 are switched.

### 3. Why would Bill bring the bloody hammer to the Blonde's house and leave it there at 01:03:00

## Interesting hints

> (00:03:07) **Officer:** So you followed women?

## Sequence Timeline
```
1- follow Cobb different streets
4- follow Cobb into cafe 4.2 stealing from random girl
7- stealing from himself (wooden statue breaks)
10- stealing from Blonde 10.2 going to old house first time (there are a bunch of hammers there)
13- restaurant after old house 13.2 writes and shaves -> calls Cobb tells him he rhaved and sold the stuff 13.3 Cobb is with Blonde telling her Bill is hooked
---
2- follow Blonde first time (matches Blonde's face with the pics)
5- Bill chat with Blonde in cafe (introduces himself as Daniel Lyoid) 5.2 takes Blonde to his house (Blonde tells Bill Bald is dangerous) (wooden statue broken)
8- go to Blonde's house first time (Bald leaves Blonde's house)
11- dating Blonde in a bar knows Bald is dangerous (pays with Daniel Lyoid's CC)
15- appologizing from Blonde at Blonde's house 15.2 post shave, hasn't sold, rooftop, suggest stealing from Bald, gets beaten, post sex 15.3 Cobb with Blonde (Blonde asks where is my earring but Cobb doesn't tell)
---
3- just got beaten at the roof 3.2 follow Bald leave bar
6- follow Bald come back in 6.2 call Cobb for advice     *[openning: begin mission prep (wearing gloves)]
9- finish mission prep (puts hammer in his pants)
12- entering the bar at night to steal the pics
14- stealing cont, kills the man                         *[the end: goes to his own house post stealing -> goes the Blonde's house slaps her 16.2 Cobb at Blonde, kills her]
```

## Interesting philosophical dialogues

### 1. Indivuduals vs the crowd (00:02:41)
> **Bill:** How can I explain? You ever... been to a football match, just let your eyes...
> go over, drift across a crowd of people... and they slowly stop and fix on one person...
> and all of a sudden that person isn't part of the crowd anymore? They've become an 
> individual, just like that.
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macrocosm_and_microcosm
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michel_Foucault
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holism

### 2. Take it away, show them what they had (00:13:24)
> **Cobb:** It's like a diary. They hide it, but actually they want someone to see it.
> That's what I do. Concealment, display, flip sides of the same coin.
> This way they know that someone's seen it.
> That's what it's all about, interrupting someone's life...
> making them see all the things they took for granted.
> Like when they go back and buy all this stuff from the shelves...
> with the insurance money, they'll have to think...
> for the first time in a long time...
> why they wanted all this stuff, what it's for.
> You take it away... and show them what they had.

> **Cobb:** Saucy, eh? (shows a pair of panties)
> Found these in the last flat.
> Think I'll just give them something to chat about.
>
> **Bill:** Why would you do that?
>
> **Cobb:** She'll find them in his trousers and ask him what he's been doing.
>
> **Bill:** Yeah, but why would you want to fuck up their relationship?
>
> **Cobb:** Don't you listen? You take it away... and show them what they had.

### 3. Burglary is about entering someone's life (00:14:50)
> **Bill:** I thought the whole point of burglary was taking things.
>
> **Cobb:** No, this is the point, breaking in, entering someone's life... finding out who 
> they really are. I mean, don't you just feel it? Standing here... drinking their wine, 
> people we'll never even meet.

## I was wondering...

### 1. If you were the police, how could you have found out the truth? 
<details><summary>Show answer</summary>

**1.** One possible trace would be that the random girl who was cheating on her boyfriend saw
them in the restaurant and saw that Cobb gave the card to Bill and he signed it and paid
the Bill with it, and then it could be matched with the records of the restaurant that
Daniel Lyoid paid the Bill. But she might not want to risk her relationship.

**2.** Bald guy didn't pay a dime to Cobb, he told Cobb to take the stolen money from Bill. 
And then Bald would get back the money from insurance, but he was running illigal
business, so he wouldn't normally report how much money he makes and has in his safe,
but this time, since he knew he was gonna get stolen from, he might have become greedy
and reported the money correctly, because Cobb took the money so he couldn't prove how
much money was in the safe. Now the police could have checked tax records and discovered
that his earning had a huge jump prior to the incident and figure that he probably knew
the incident was goin to happen.

</details>

## Trivia

* (00:43:56) There is a picture from "The Shining" on his wall :D
* The final scene at (01:07:48) is the same place as (00:02:49). 
  Interestingly enough, that early scene is exactly where Bill is saying [1. Indivuduals vs the crowd (00:02:41)](#1-indivuduals-vs-the-crowd-000241)
